Add post about recording MenB (#476)
NHSDigital/prevention-services-design-history: app/record-a-vaccination/2026/04/supporting-menb-vaccinations-in-response-to-an-outbreak/index.md

## Dose sequence

As the MenB vaccine is given as 2 doses, we added a new question to ask which dose was being recorded:

![Screenshot of a page titled ‘Which dose of the MenB vaccine are you giving?’ with 3 radio options labelled 1st dose, 2nd dose and Booster.](which-dose-of-menb.png)

Although we do not expect the booster option to be used by the local team in Kent, we included it as this dose is given to children when they turn 1, and this may be a use we support in future.

## Eligibility

We did not include an eligibility question.

This is because the MenB vaccines being given in Kent are outside of the regular routine vaccination schedule.

The eligibility question for vaccinations is also not included in the data sent to GP records and other systems, and we have wider questions about the usage of this information, whether it needs to be recorded, and if so at what level of detail.

## Other questions

The other questions remained unchanged and are:

- date
- site
- vaccinator
- batch number
- consent

> - injection site.

Reviewer: Is a full stop correct here?
```suggestion
- injection site
```

Author: Ooh good spot - thanks!

## SNOMED codes

> We include these SNOMED codes for the procedure:

Reviewer: Should we explain what SNOMED codes are here?  or link out to an explanation?

Author: Good point. Have added an explanation - does it help?

---
title: Supporting MenB vaccinations in response to an outbreak
description: Changes we made to enable recording of the MenB vaccine

> date: 2026-04-22

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2026-04-23
```

## Dose sequence

As the MenB vaccine is given as 2 doses, we added a new question to ask which dose was being recorded:

![Screenshot of a page titled ‘Which dose of the MenB vaccine are you giving?’ with 3 radio options labelled 1st dose, 2nd dose and Booster.](which-dose-of-menb.png)

Although we do not expect the booster option to be used by the local team in Kent, we included it as this dose is given to children when they turn 1, and this may be a use we support in future.

## Eligibility

We did not include an eligibility question.

This is because the MenB vaccines being given in Kent are outside of the regular routine vaccination schedule.

The eligibility question for vaccinations is also not included in the data sent to GP records and other systems, and we have wider questions about the usage of this information, whether it needs to be recorded, and if so at what level of detail.

## Other questions

The other questions remained unchanged and are:

- date
- site
- vaccinator
- batch number
- consent
- injection site

## SNOMED codes

> When we record vaccinations and send the record to GPs via the [immunisation API](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/api-catalogue/immunisation-fhir-api), we use the codes from the [Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine Clinical Terms](https://digital.nhs.uk/services/terminology-and-classifications/snomed-ct) (SNOMED CT).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we record vaccinations and send the record to GPs via the [immunisation API](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/api-catalogue/immunisation-fhir-api), we use [SNOMED CT](https://digital.nhs.uk/services/terminology-and-classifications/snomed-ct) codes.
```

We include these codes for the procedure:

- First dose: [`720539004`](https://termbrowser.nhs.uk/?perspective=full&conceptId1=720539004)
- Second dose: [`720540002`](https://termbrowser.nhs.uk/?perspective=full&conceptId1=720540002)
- Booster dose: [`720544006`](https://termbrowser.nhs.uk/?perspective=full&conceptId1=720544006)

For the product, [`23584211000001109`](https://termbrowser.nhs.uk/?perspective=full&conceptId1=23584211000001109) is used for Bexsero.

## Response

These changes were made to the service on 2 April 2026.

> As of 12 April 2026, over 8,000 MenB vaccinations have been recorded in the service by the team in Kent. These were originally recorded on paper (before 2 April) and have been transcribed into the service.  The [same vaccination for another patient](/record-a-vaccination/2025/09/making-it-easier-to-record-next-vaccination/) feature has made this easier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of 12 April 2026, the team in Kent had recorded over 8,000 MenB vaccinations in the service. These were originally recorded on paper (before 2 April) and then transcribed into the service.  The [same vaccination for another patient](/record-a-vaccination/2025/09/making-it-easier-to-record-next-vaccination/) feature has made this easier.
```
